# Notes

This document contains notes and questions that occur during implementation.

## Crypto
- What curves are officially supported?
    - secp256k1 does not seem to work with chrome, but secp256r1 does
    - It could be a result of the cose encoding of the public key, for example, not including the curve. But the standard doesn't seem to specify how to designate a specific P256 curve

## CTAP2
- Firefox doesn't seem to respond to the INIT response sent by the authenticator. Debuging is difficult in Firefox so it is so far not possible to determine why. Chrome is easier to debug, see `google-chrome --enable-logging --v=1`
- Error messages during INIT are ignored by the client
    - If multiple clients try to connect to the authenticator at the same time, only one will be accepted, and in doing so lock the transaction and all other requests should receive an error message of channel busy. However, the error message is returned on the broadcast channel with no distinguishing values returned, i.e. the nonce. As such, a client cannot determine if the error message was intended for it or, and therefore sensibly just waits to time out. This is not only bad from a UI perspective, but it creates the problem that the user does not necessarily know which instance won that race and therefore which request they are "consenting" to, particularly if the only check is a user presence check

## WebAuthN
- In what scenario does an allow list in GetAssertion contain more than one credential?
    - There is an initial exchange between Client and RP to obtain the allow list. One assumes that in normal circumstances there will be a one-to-one relationship between user and credential. However, if a user registers multiple authenticators with the same account this may not be true. 
    - Follow-up question, does the initial request made between the client and RP contain any Authenticator information - I don't think it does, which would mean in the scenario of multiple authenticators registered against one account the allow list will contain multiple credentials. However, if that request is made after the GetInfo call, it could be filtered by Authenticator AAGUID (I don't believe this occurs, as if it did there could be a privacy risk)
- How is User/UserEntity data used?
    - It is not included in the GetAssertion information, so cannot be used for filtering at that point. As such, if a RP does not include an allow list, all credentials for that RP ID (domain) will be returned. As such, all GitHub accounts would be returned if multiple user accounts had been registered and the RP did not provide an Allow list. 
    - The problem with the above is that if the Authenticator does not have a display the specification states:
        >Update the response to include the first credential’s publicKeyCredentialUserEntity information and numberOfCredentials. User identifiable information (name, DisplayName, icon) inside publicKeyCredentialUserEntity MUST not be returned if user verification is not done by the authenticator.
    - This delegates the credential selection to the client, i.e. the client shows a UI that will allow the user to pick the relevant credential. However, the User.id is a byte string generated by the client or RP, and is not necessarily known to the user. **How is the user supposed to determine the correct credential when the only information shown a byte id?**
- Who is setting the User Presence check?
    - It defaults to True for CTAP2, but can be set to false by the client/RP. As far as I can tell, this is not a value that the user can override. However, since this check is a "consent" check:
        > user presence: Instructs the authenticator to require user consent to complete the operation. 
        
        This seems to create a problem, since setting UP to False could in theory bypass the consent check? If that is the case it might allow a corrupt RP to iterate through credentials on the same Authenticator to determine related accounts. With a UP I believe the credential checking and interaction with the Authenticator is silent, and as such, could fail in the background, revealing the user.id of related accounts.
- Is a user presence check even a consent check?
    - Can consent be granted without first authenticating the user? 
